Good afternoon.
Thanks for coming.
It’s so nice to spend
my birthday surrounded
by so many smiling faces.
I was almost too depressed
to come today.
I realized
I let my childhood slip away.
Thirty minutes earlier
[ Claire ]
Come on, everybody!
We’re gonna be late
for Manny’s birthday.
Let’s go, let’s go, let’s go,
let’s go, let’s go!
I’m ready, Mom.
You sure, honey?
Yup.
Wanna take a quick peek
at your feet?
Oh, come on, Luke.
Are you gonna walk faster,
or should I get Lily’s stroller
out of the car and push you?
Would you relax?
The restaurant’s five minutes
away from here.
- Oh, free lotion.
- Stop stopping to smell
the roses. Manny’s present.
- Oh, you are such a Pritchett.
- What’s that supposed to mean?
Let’s go, let’s go, let’s go,
let’s go, let’s go!
- I’m looking for the keys!
- Of course you are.
I like being on time.
It’s easy,
’cause I’m organized.
Not my wife.
You’d think growing up in
a place full of death squads
and drunken uncles,
she’d have learned to move
a little bit faster.
Ay. Sorry, sorry.
I couldn’t
find my earring.
So what were we
talking about, huh?
♪ Hey, hey ♪
♪ Hey ♪♪
Honey, come on.
We’re gonna be late.
Let’s go.
Yeah, yeah, just filling out
the application to family camp.
Oh.
You don’t win the Dirty Dancing
competition and not go back
to defend your crown.
Mmm. That’s right.
Come on, honey.
But... shoot for the king,
you’d better kill him.
Every summer we spend
a week at family camp.
It’s just like regular camp,
but with the family!
Yeah.
I don’t think that needed
any clarification, Phil.
Somebody’s still
a little touchy...
about losing last year’s color
war.
Not.
She was on Team Blue,
or as I like to refer to them,
as Team Blue-ser.
And I was on White.
That’s good.
And if you
ain’t White,
you ain’t right!
Phil, have you
learned nothing?
Last summer
[ Claire Whispers ]
That’s true.
My good man.
[ Car Door Opens, Slams ]
[ Mouthing Words ]
Okay, come on, everybody.
Front door. Now!
Claire, relax. It takes
15 minutes to get there.
- It takes 20 minutes.
- If we take your route.
- My way is the most direct.
- Directly into traffic.
Your way is directly
into... the suckiest way.
- You wanna make this
interesting?
- I don’t think that’s possible.
- We take two cars and see
who gets there first.
- Fine. Fine. Let’s do that.
- It’s on.
- Yeah! It is on.
I’ll take the girls.
Luke, your dad and I
are splitting up.
Why?
Another one of their
stupid arguments.
Okay.
I’ll go with Dad.
No, no, buddy.
Come with me.
[ Grunts ]
Prepare to be– My shoes.
[ Door Closes ]
Come on, Phil.
How do I look?
Like Al Capone.
Thanks.
Happy birthday, kid.
Whoa.
A BB gun?
Enjoy. That’s the best gift
my dad ever gave me.
My keys are nowhere.
We’re gonna have to go
in your car.
It’s in the shop.
Where was the last place
you put your keys?
So now it’s my fault?
Where was the last place
you put my keys?
In your hand,
when I bought you the car.
Hey, Jay, on the box it says
ages 16 and up.
Is this an appropriate
gift for me?
Are you kidding me?
You were born 16.
We wouldn’t be having
this problem if you
hadn’t lost the spare set.
I didn’t lose them. Somebody
came in here and stole them.
And left the car.
What do you mean,
I was born 16?
I’m just saying,
you were never much of a kid,
and that’s a good thing,
’cause I never liked kids.
You ought to try the fridge,
’cause that’s where
we found your cell phone.
It was only one time, Jay,
and you know I always eat
after I talk to my mother.
Happy birthday,
old man.
Well, I’ve forgotten
a lot of things in my life,
but what Jay said
hit me hard.
I’d forgotten
to have a childhood.
Dad, that was a stop sign.
I’ll stop twice
on the way back.
Oh, good. It’ll give us
a chance to pick up
that hubcap you lost...
cutting through
the temple parking lot.
Yellow. Yellow!
[ Engine Accelerating ]
Okay.
Are you seeing this?
We are making every light,
and we don’t even have to speed.
The system works.
Mom?
I know. I went a little
fast back there.
But really,
40 is the same as 35.
You say that a lot.
[ Chuckles ]
I don’t think you two appreciate
what’s at stake here.
Our lives?
You know I love your mother,
but I think you also know a
certain look she gets that says,
"Just listen to me.
I’m always right."
You mean her face?
Now we’re getting this.
If we’re right this one time,
then we never have to be
right again.
When she says, "That balloon
can’t carry a person, Phil,"
I say, "Manny’s birthday."
Take a jacket, Alex.
I think it’s gonna rain.
Manny’s birthday.
Don’t look at me.
Look at the road.
Manny’s birthday.
No, Dad, look at the road!
There’s a truck!
[ Horn Honks ]
Sweet baby Jesús!
[ Brakes Screeching ]
We are so
kicking your dad’s butt!
We are the best ones!
How come you and Dad
are breaking up?
What?
It was just
a little disagreement.
Can’t you just work it out?
Oh, sweetie,
you thought that when I said
we were splitting up–
No. No, your dad and I
are fine, honey.
We just were gonna take
separate cars to see who could
get to the restaurant faster.
Oh, that’s a relief.
Oh, you must have been
feeling awful back there.
I am so sorry.
It’s okay.
Why did you say
you’d go with your dad?
[ Alex ]
Great. Mom gets to
be right again.
Hey, bad attitudes
lose races.
No, swerving into a curb
and popping your tire
loses races.
We should call the cops
and say Mom’s car was stolen.
- They arrest her, we win.
- No, they trace those calls.
But this is great.
Thinking like a team.
Good practice
for family camp.
We’re, uh–
We’re doing that again?
Oh, yeah.
And this year I predict
total White domination.
Mm-hmm.
Can’t go back there.
I heard this summer,
there’s gonna be a hoedown.
I can’t.
Haley!
I can’t! I can’t.
Eight minutes talking to the
lady at the stationery store
and still no present.
I think a new friend
is like a present.
Yeah, I read that card too.
Can we please just
buy the next thing we see
and get out of here?
Why can’t you enjoy this?
It’s a beautiful afternoon.
Lily’s with a sitter.
The day is ours.
[ Wheezing ]
Helen!
H-H-H-Helen.
[ Shouting ]
Helen!
Oh, look at that.
Another friend.
Off we go. Very busy.
No. Stop. You are too tied
to your rigid schedules.
You’re missing life.
It took all of two seconds
to help this nice man.
Uh, well, w-wait.
There’s more.
Two seconds.
Yeah.
Tell her I’m so sorry.
I’ve always loved her.
He says he’s so sorry
and that he’s always
loved you!
Please come up
and talk to me.
and talk to him!
His life would be empty
without you!
I’m sorry
I’m going off script.
It just felt right.
Good– Oh.
Too late.
No. You know what?
Give him
your cell phone.
I’ll chase Helen down
and give her my phone.
They can hash it out.
- Are you– Are you serious?
- Yes, I’m serious
as a heart attack.
You always do this.
Now we’re gonna be late
to our own party.
Stop shouting!
Technically,
I wasn’t really–
Uh, yes, hello.
Is Seymour Butts there?
I never made a prank call,
never mixed different sodas
together to see
what they’d taste like.
So I knew I had to
make the most of what little
childhood I had left.
Not Lutz.
I’m looking for Butts.
Yes, I’m trying to
get ahold of Butts.
Very funny.
I don’t have time
for this foolishness.
[ Phone Beeps ]
Maybe if you had a system
for where you leave things.
I have a system.
I put down things, then
I remember where I put them.
And that would
preferable to, say,
putting them on the key holder
which just happens
to look like a large key?
Stop screaming!
- What are you doing?
- Turning back the clock.
[ Keys Jingling ]
[ Gags, Coughs ]
Disgusting.
Don’t judge me.
You’ve never been married.
This never happened.
- I don’t know
what you’re talking about.
- That’s a good man.
Boy. I’m a boy!
[ Coughing ]
You all right?
You okay?
Well, why do you ask?
[ Cell Phone Rings ]
Oh, okay.
I think
this is for you.
[ Beeps ]
I don’t know
what to say to him.
Just open your heart
and listen, Helen.
Okay.
Hello?
[ Phone Shatters ]
I dropped your phone.
Yeah. I was here
when it happened.
Okay. It’s all right.
We’ll just–
I can’t.
I-I just can’t.
Helen, you have to try.
I once almost let my own fears
stop me from embarking
on a relationship,
and I would have lost
the love of my life.
Helen!
Donald?
Cam?
Hang on!
Hang on, Helen!
I’ll have you down
in a jiffy.
Hold on tight.
Ow. Nails.
Helen, nails, nails, nails.
Helen. Helen.
At least just give me a chance.
[ Shouts ]
Give him a chance!
She’s right here.
- Cam, come on.
We’re running out of time.
- We’re running out of time?
Sensitive.
Go to him.
Oh, it’s nice that
you care so much about us.
- Without love, we’re nothing.
- But what about his wife?
It was a pleasure
meeting you both.
Okay.
I get it, Luke.
You think he’s the fun one.
That’s why you’d go with him.
What?
You think your dad
is more fun than I am.
Definitely.
Dad’s, like, crazy fun.
Mm-hmm.
But you’re nice.
I’m nice?
Well, not now.
Tell him.
Tell me what?
Nothing.
Hey.
What do we call
Daddy’s car, girls?
[ Together ] The cone of trust.
The cone of trust.
Exactamundo.
Where you can
speak your mind
with no judgment.
So what is it?
Boys?
Your bodies are changing?
Eggs?
No! No.
[ Sighs ]
We were just thinking
that maybe–
Mmm?
if–
if you’re open to it–
Dad, we love you,
but we do not want to go
to family camp this year.
Dad?
Are you upset?
No.
[ Sniffles ]
Then what was that sniff?
Sniff?
What sniff?
I’m-I’m, uh–
I’m actually relieved.
The day that
I’ve been dreading–
uh, the day when you two
finally outgrow me
has finally arrived,
and I’m handling it
really well.
Dad, are you crying?
Nope.
Are you sure
you’re okay?
Yep.
Oh, my God, he is crying.
I’ve never seen Dad
cry before.
But, Dad, if you cry,
then I’ll cry!
I’m not crying.
[ Sobbing ]
We made our daddy cry!
You called me Daddy!
Because you are
our daddy!
I’ll always be your daddy!
[ All Sobbing ]
- Don’t cry, Mom.
- I am not crying.
Let me fill you in
on a little secret, Luke.
When I met your dad,
I was fun too.
But I had to give all that up,
because you can’t have
two fun parents.
That’s a carnival.
You know that kid Liam
who wears pajama pants
to school...
and pays for things with
a hundred-dollar bill?
Two fun parents.
Mark my words.
Mm-hmm.
[ All Sobbing ]
Oh, my God!
You’re fun too, Mom.
Uh-huh.
I just decided to go with Dad
because I think
he’d need me more.
- How come I do all the looking
and you do all the sitting?
- ’Cause you do all the losing.
Oh, and you’re this close
of doing all the sleeping
in a tent in the backyard.
[ Drawer Slams ]
Did you check your purse?
Yes, of course.
It’s a big purse.
- You might want to look again.
- Okay.
I check. You rest.
[ Keys Jingle ]
No.
There’s nothing.
You sure?
Yes.
I’ve looked twice now.
There’s nothing.
Okay. Then you better
call us a cab.
Manny!
Manny?
What the hell?
Where’d that thing
come from?
Christmas. Two years ago.
Never took it out of the box.
"Who would enjoy that?"
I thought. A kid, that’s who.
Well, come on.
We’ve got your party.
What’s the point?
You were right. I-I was born 16.
I’ve lost my childhood.
Why did you want me
to look again in my purse,
Jay, huh?
Is it because
you put the keys in there?
No. Why? Did you find them?
Yes, I found them because
you put the keys in there!
Manny, what the hell
are you doing there?
He wants to cancel
his party because
he missed his childhood.
The party that I have
rescheduled three times,
changing the restaurant twice
so that the whole family
could be together?
Please send my regrets.
Now if I could
have a little privacy–
Privacy?
¡Esa es la que me faltaba a mí!
Privacy en esta casa!
That a skateboard down there?
- The second thing that slipped
right out from under me today.
- Okay, time to get out.
- The first was my childhood.
- I get it!
I am so sick
of stubborn men.
You, you act like a little boy
that doesn’t want
to accept that he’s wrong.
And you like a sad old man
that doesn’t want to be happy!
That’s it!
- [ BB Fires ]
- [ Air Hissing ]
You could have shot me!
Come on, Manny.
I could’ve unbuttoned
your shirt if I wanted to.
Now come here or sink!
And I’m taking this with me
in the car.
Vámonos.
I know that face, Mitchell.
And we’re walking.
I’m sorry.
It means you were right
and I was wrong for trying to
help two people.
Adulterers?
Fair enough.
Actually, the most
adult adulterers ever.
But my impulse was still right.
Life is about being–
Oh, God. Here we go.
Yes. You know what?
Here we do go.
It’s about being
spontaneous.
It’s about throwing yourself
into something,
not working long hours
every night at the office.
It’s every–
[ Women ]
♪ Free your mind ♪
♪♪ [ Dance Pop On Speakers ]
What is this?
I don’t know.
Excuse me, Constable.
What is going on?
♪ I wear tight clothing
High-heeled shoes ♪
♪ It doesn’t mean that
I’m a prostitute, no, no ♪
Oh, it’s a flash mob!
It’s a flash mob!
Oh! We saw it
on YouTube. Remember?
People get together and
choreograph big dance numbers.
We should go.
This is kind of weird.
No, this is joyful, Mitchell.
You, of all people,
should–
♪ Why, oh, why
must it be this way ♪
♪♪ [ Vocalizing ]
♪ Before you can read me
you got to learn
how to see me ♪
[ Mitchell ]
Cam’s right.
I can be a little rigid.
So when Chad from accounting,
who I always thought was gay
but apparently...
is not,
um, told me
about this flash mob,
I thought, hells yes!
Uh, we’ve been
practicing after work
a couple of nights a week.
And it’s–
it’s been a big commitment,
but it’s totally worth it.
This dance is
my love letter to Cam.
♪ Before you can read me
you got to learn
how to see me ♪
- ♪ I said, free your mind
and the rest will follow ♪
- [ Mouthing Words ]
♪ Be colorblind
Don’t be so shallow ♪
♪ Free your mind ♪
♪ And the rest will follow ♪
♪ Be colorblind ♪
♪ Don’t be so shallow ♪
♪ Free your mind ♪♪
[ Woman ]
All right!
[ Scattered Applause ]
[ Breathing Heavily ]
Okay, so this is why I was
rushing you around. Huh?
What do you think
of me now?
[ Chuckles ]
How could you, Mitchell?
What? Cameron.
Cameron–
Not now, Donald!
You do fun stuff.
[ Scoffs ]
You put that potato chip
in my sandwich.
That was a crunchy surprise.
Nope.
That was your dad.
Everything fun
is your dad.
Second Christmas,
Italian accent night,
this race.
Which we could’ve won.
Your way is way faster.
It is, isn’t it?
Buckle up, Luke.
Today you have
two fun parents.
[ Tires Squeal ]
Come on, Mom.
You can do it.
That’s right, I can.
Tell me the truth, Jay.
Did you put the key
in my bag?
No.
I won’t be mad.
In order to prove a point,
I may have–
I knew it!
Oh! Ow!
Why did I get you
such a big watch?
Why, Jay? What point
do you have to prove?
I’m trying to teach you
to be organized. Your mind
is scattered, Gloria.
Your mind
is gonna be scattered!
Manny, hand me the gun!
I appreciate the gesture,
and I’m not proud of
how I’m feeling right now,
but the fact is,
you cheated on me.
In what way did I
cheat on y–
You cheated on me
with choreography,
and that is the worst kind.
Okay. Well, it really isn’t.
You danced without me,
Mitchell!
If I’d known it was my
last summer there, I’d have
gone for the lead in Pippin.
Dad, look up ahead,
coming at us.
There’s Mom! Beat her!
I don’t think he’s in the mood
for that right now.
Hold on. No.
If ever a man needed a win,
it’s this man.
What do you say,
Dad?
Okay.
This one’s
for family camp.
Whoo!
Whoo-hoo!
[ Both ] Go! Go! Go! Go!
Go! Go! Go! Go!
Ohh!
This is so
inappropriate!
I love you!
[ Laughing ]
[ Both ]
Go! Go! Go! Go!
Ohh!
[ Yelling ]
Mom, look out!
[ Screams ]
Cam!
Oh!
[ Tires Screeching ]
Anybody hurt?
I am.
Ma’am.
Hi.
I was almost too depressed
to come today.
I realized I let
my childhood slip away.
Look at Luke there,
making one big straw
out of three.
Never change, Luke.
[ Slurping ]
I really thought
it was too late for me.
But watching all of you acting
like children, it hit me–
I’ve got plenty of time left
to be a kid.
Anyway,
happy birthday to me.
[ All ]
Happy birthday, Manny.
[ Glasses Clinking ]
I have been a child.
I’m sorry I hid the keys.
I’m sorry
I shoot the island.
We’re totally racing home.
I’m way ahead of you,
as usual.
- They say it’s going
to be a rainy weekend.
- They don’t know.
I do. My knee’s been
singing all morning.
Unbelievable.
[ BB Fires ]
Mother of G–
Put them down
and walk away.
You know, Gloria–
♪ Before you can read me
you got to learn
how to see me ♪
♪ I said, free your mind
and the rest will follow ♪
♪ Be colorblind
Don’t be so shallow ♪
♪ Free your mind ♪
♪ And the rest will follow ♪
♪ Be colorblind ♪
♪ Don’t be so shallow ♪
♪ Free your mind ♪♪